the effect of the turning tide can be
totally different on a rocking Shore
here on the coast of Vancouver Island in
Canada the Sun bakes the exposed rock
it's virtually impossible to dig
underground when the sea retreats
so these mussels and barnacles are fully
exposed to the heat of the Sun literally
cooking in their own shells and the
seaweed simply dry to a crisp
it can be a weight of many hours before
the water returns throughout each month
the size and strength of the tide
changes the biggest tides of all
happened when the gravities of the Sun
and Moon pull in unison that happens
immediately after the new moon and again
after the full moon
these are called the spring tides they
revealed vast tracts of seabed that
would normally be covered for these
raccoons it's a chance to look for a
seafood feast the mother ventures forth
with her kits with the spring tide
they've come further down the beats and
smaller tides would normally allow
searching with their extraordinarily
sensitive paws they look for suitable
prey with the extreme low tide they
could find something special
and what could be better than a Red Rock
crab that is if it weren't for the risk
of a painful pinch
with large crabs there's no substitute
for experience the mother makes an
expert's catch
but the kids learn fast
and for those that don't begging is
always worth a try all too soon the
returning tide will cover the raccoons
table
for all invertebrates it's a welcome
relief but in rough weather they are
exposed to the worst of the waves
you